<!---
NOTE: this file has been generated by the doc command in js-libjuju
on Tue 2018/11/27 16:23:13 UTC. Do not manually edit this file.
--->
# AllModelWatcher v2

SrvAllWatcher defines the API methods on a state.Multiwatcher. which watches
  any changes to the state. Each client has its own current set of watchers,
  stored in resources. It is used by both the AllWatcher and AllModelWatcher
  facades.
This API facade is available on controller connections.

To include AllModelWatcherV2 capabilities in your client, load it as
part of your facades, for instance:
```javascript
const {conn, logout} = await jujulib.connectAndLogin(url, credentials, {
  facades: [require('jujulib/api/facades/all-model-watcher-v2')]
});
```
Facade methods at then accessible at `conn.facades.allModelWatcher`.

Go back to [index](index.md).

## Methods
- [next](#nextwatcherId-callback) (helper / overridden)
- [stop](#stopwatcherId-callback) (helper / overridden)

## next(watcherId, callback)

Ask for next watcher messages corresponding to changes in the models.

- *@param {String} watcherId* The id of the currently used watcher. The id is
  retrieved by calling the Controller.watchAllModels API call.
- *@param {Function} callback* Called when the next messages arrive, the
  callback receives an error and the changes. If there are no errors,
  changes are provided as an object like the following:
```javascript
{
  deltas: []anything
}
```
- *@return {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.


## stop(watcherId, callback)

Stop watching all models.

- *@param {String} watcherId* The id of the currently used watcher. The id is
  retrieved by calling the Controller.watchAllModels API call.
- *@param {Function} callback* Called after the watcher has been stopped, the
  callback receives an error.
- *@return {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.
