<!---
NOTE: this file has been generated by the doc command in js-libjuju
on Fri 2018/11/16 13:11:58 UTC. Do not manually edit this file.
--->
# Pinger v1

pinger describes a resource that can be pinged and stopped.
This API facade is available on both controller and model connections.

To include PingerV1 capabilities in your client, load it as
part of your facades, for instance:
```javascript
const {conn, logout} = await jujulib.connectAndLogin(url, credentials, {
  facades: [require('jujulib/api/facades/pinger-v1')]
});
```
Facade methods at then accessible at `conn.facades.pinger`.

Go back to [index](index.md).

## Methods
- [pingForever](#pingForeverinterval-callback) (helper / overridden)
- [ping](#pingcallback)
- [stop](#stopcallback)

## pingForever(interval, callback)

Start pinging repeatedly with the give interval.

This can be useful for preventing proxies to close a connection to Juju due
to inactivity.

- *@param {Integer} interval* Milliseconds between pings.
- *@param {Function} callback* Called every time a pong is received from the
  server, the callback receives an error.
- *@returns {Object}* A handle that can be used to stop pinging via its stop
  method.

## ping(callback)
There is no documentation for this method.

- *@param {Function} callback* Called when the response from Juju is available,
  the callback receives an error or null if the operation succeeded.
- *@returns {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.

## stop(callback)
There is no documentation for this method.

- *@param {Function} callback* Called when the response from Juju is available,
  the callback receives an error or null if the operation succeeded.
- *@returns {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.