<!---
NOTE: this file has been generated by the doc command in js-libjuju
on Fri 2018/11/09 14:32:38 UTC. Do not manually edit this file.
--->
# VolumeAttachmentsWatcher v2

srvMachineStorageIdsWatcher defines the API wrapping a state.StringsWatcher
  watching machine/storage attachments. This watcher notifies about storage
  entities (volumes/filesystems) being attached to and detached from
  machines.  TODO(axw) state needs a new watcher, this is a bt of a hack.
  State watchers could do with some deduplication of logic, and I don't want
  to add to that spaghetti right now.
This API facade is available on model connections.

To include VolumeAttachmentsWatcherV2 capabilities in your client, load it as
part of your facades, for instance:
```javascript
const {conn, logout} = await jujulib.connectAndLogin(url, credentials, {
  facades: [require('jujulib/api/facades/volume-attachments-watcher-v2')]
});
```
Facade methods at then accessible at `conn.facades.volumeAttachmentsWatcher`.

Go back to [index](index.md).

## Methods
- [next](#nextcallback)
- [stop](#stopcallback)

## next(callback)
Next returns when a change has occurred to an entity of the collection
    being watched since the most recent call to Next or the Watch call that
    created the srvMachineStorageIdsWatcher.

- *@param {Function} callback* Called when the response from Juju is available,
  the callback receives an error and the result. If there are no errors, the
  result is provided as an object like the following:
```javascript
{
  watcherId: string,
  changes: []{
    machineTag: string,
    attachmentTag: string
  },
  error: {
    message: string,
    code: string,
    info: {
      macaroon: anything,
      macaroonPath: string
    }
  }
}
```
- *@returns {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.

## stop(callback)
Stop stops the watcher.

- *@param {Function} callback* Called when the response from Juju is available,
  the callback receives an error or null if the operation succeeded.
- *@returns {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.