<!---
NOTE: this file has been generated by the doc command in js-libjuju
on Wed 2042/01/01 16:42:47 UTC. Do not manually edit this file.
--->
# AllWatcher v1

Watch all!
This API facade is available on model connections.

To include AllWatcherV1 capabilities in your client, load it as
part of your facades, for instance:
```javascript
const {conn, logout} = await jujulib.connectAndLogin(url, credentials, {
  facades: [require('jujulib/api/facades/all-watcher-v1')]
});
```
Facade methods at then accessible at `conn.facades.allWatcher`.

Go back to [index](index.md).

## Methods
- [next](#nextwatcherId-callback) (helper / overridden)
- [stop](#stopwatcherId-callback) (helper / overridden)

## next(watcherId, callback)

Ask for next watcher messages corresponding to changes in the model.

- *@param {String} watcherId* The id of the currently used watcher. The id is
  retrieved by calling the Client.watchAll API call.
- *@param {Function} callback* Called when the next messages arrive, the
  callback receives an error and the changes. If there are no errors,
  changes are provided as an object like the following:
```javascript
{
  deltas: []anything
}
```
- *@return {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.


## stop(watcherId, callback)

Stop watching the model.

- *@param {String} watcherId* The id of the currently used watcher. The id is
  retrieved by calling the Client.watchAll API call.
- *@param {Function} callback* Called after the watcher has been stopped, the
  callback receives an error.
- *@return {Promise}* Rejected or resolved with the values normally passed to
  the callback when the callback is not provided.
  This allows this method to be awaited.
